M: How long have you been part of the team, and how well do you know the individual team members?
P: I have with TONI for two years, and I know them pretty well since I am working daily with most of them.

M: Please talk a bit about how you used AT during the last week.
P: I mainly used it to check who is online and still around and sometimes to ask how they feel.

M: Do you have any concrete examples from yesterday?
P: Yes, Switzerland was playing and winning, so we had a little conversation about how we feel happy about it. Some changed their statuses and some felt sad for Mbappé.

M: Did your usage change over time? If so, how?
P: I would say it stayed quite the same. The usage was not very high, which has mainly to do with the fact that we mainly use MS Teams.

M: Did your general way of interacting with your team members change with the usage of AT?
P: No, it would say it stayed the same.

M: What do you generally think about sharing moods and statuses?
P: So, the mood, I think it is a good way to express how they feel. I was not always sure whether they updated their mood. So maybe you really have to force the updating of the mood.

M: So the popup should really force the user?
P: Yes, the popup should not go away until the user selected a mood from a scale of, let's say 1 (very bad) to 5 (very good).

M: What would you say motivated you to share something yourself?
P: Ehm, I guess mainly the point that we are so focused, more so in home office, on tasks and your main work, and you forget a little bit about the social aspects of an enterprise, so it helped to keep that also on track and ongoing that you also have contact not only on a task level but also on a social level.

M: Did you notice that your avatars were fading out?
P: Yes, I saw that. But I would not say that it influenced me.

M: What did you generally share with your team? (I checked before). You only shared your mood during the kick-off. So, why did you not share your mood more often?
P: Good question, I don't know. I probably should have checked it more, right. But I did not receive feedback. You expect some kind of reaction if you post something, but it got really difficult to track the response. So, even if I did get a response, I did not get a notification. 

M: So, would you prefer a notification?
P: Yes, this would enhance the tool substantially. Otherwise, you know, that's the other part, we probably come to it, this window sometimes annoyed me if I worked in excel, so I put it away. So then I completely forgot that I had it (AT) running.

M: Now, you did not share many moods, but would you also share negative moods?
P: Ehm, I would share it; you know it's normal, we are not in a happy boat where everyone is happy all the time.

M: Before the study, how did you share moods and status with your team?
P: Only just using MS Teams and write a message. But then, mostly, it is a 1:1 communication basis. 

M: What's your preferred way? AT or the old one?
P: So if you do it purposely, I think 1:1, but I actually found it if you share it with the whole team. Because sometimes people then come back to you that you don't expect. So I mean, sometimes you don't have a good mood and people see it and want to cheer you up. So this substitutes a bit that part of the office life.

M: Was there anything you learned from your team?
P: That they are quite open, that they wanted to participate in the study, so this is a good thing to see about the team. Otherwise, since I did not share that much, I don't think so.

M: Did the awareness of your team members' moods have an impact on you? On your mood?
P: I am not sure if it impacted my own mood, but it triggered some reaction. So, for example, I saw that somebody pushed "good morning", then I tought ahh okay I need to speak to this person about some topic, so I called this person on MS Teams.

M: Do you know whether your sharing of your mood and status had an impact on the other team members?
P: That's a good question... I don't know.

M: Sure, did it have an impact on yourself?
P: Yes, I guess I felt better. Because you know it felt better because of interacting with people and you know this is kind of important.

M: Frequency at which you communicated
P: I think, yes, a bit; as mentioned, if you saw something, it triggered a communication. But on a small scale, I think.

M: Anything else that you learned/shared from seeing the moods/states of your colleagues?
P: No, I would not say so. I mean, I got some insights whether they share some personal information, but other than that, no.

M: Lower the barrier to communicate?
P: Ye, it could. I don't know if it's inside the tool or outside the tool, but it can lower the barrier to communicate. 

M: Why?
P: Because you know it's an informal communication way, so you don't have to write an email to express how you feel. And you did not have to write it to a specific person; you can just post it in a "forum" and see what happens. The barrier is lower because if you write somebody, the people who receive the message have some type of obligation to react, and if you can post it in a group, you don't have this obligation, and sometimes you don't want to put that obligation on another person. Just the person that feels right can react, and the others don't have to.

M: Ambient window: Did you use it? Why/Why not?
P: I used it when I started it, but then I really had some struggles on where to put it... I tried it in the corner of the monitor, then it did not work, but in the corner of the window did not really work because there you have to click to close other windows. Then I put it somewhere in the middle, but then I needed to put some buttons there, so sometimes I got annoyed and then closed it. 

M: So the positioning was the main problem with the ambient window?
P: The position and the fact that it somehow stayed, right. I mean, I thought about what would be the ideal setup. The ideal setup would be that if someone shares something that it pops up in the top right, but then when I click again on the program I am working on, the ambient window would goes to the back again. 

M: Did you also use the overview window?:
P: No, I really mainly used the overlay.

M: Does AT integrate well into your existing workflow, or is this something that could be improved?
P: I guess you have to be some kind of complementary to MS Teams to be efficient and sustainable long term. Because now it's a bit, you know I can write to somebody in Microsoft Teams or AT, and I would normally pick MS Teams because we use it, and you also have a message history which you don't have in AT.

M: So, would you say that a future approach could just focus on mood sharing?
P: I guess so, but you know, like the mood sharing in terms of text, that I would see too. What I don't see is that you exchange messages..

M: So you more see the entire "broadcast" approach to be promising?
P: Yes, exactly. It's more like a Twitter approach where you just broadcast messages where somebody can react to it and just broadcast himself.

M: Compared to traditional tools, is there a difference in the type of content you share with AmbientTeams?
P: Yes, I guess AT is more about really quick and focused communication, so it's more like "Hi, how are you?" so it's not based on a conversation but more on the status information.

M: Why do you think AT is used that way?
P: So, we are used to having like a log of communication, and since AT does not have such a function but rather you just see the latest info, it probably is focused on that kind of information.

M: Would you consider the last workdays to be typical?
P: So, I was on travel on Friday and Monday, which restricted my time. Otherwise, it was quite normal.

M: Automated mood sharing approach
P: I would be critical based on two facts. So first of all, bit aware of who has access to my webcam, so I don't want to give access to an application all the time. I guess people know that you have to be a little bit cautious with webcams. The second thing is: I would be surprised if it's so easy to translate my mood only based on webcam images of myself.

M: Instead of automatically showing, first confirm?
P: I think my concern was rather to give access to the webcam all the time to give access to an app. Because you know, then I have a webcam now to discuss some really confidential stuff, and then I know that they are using my webcam to detect my mood. I mean, it's not about that they detect my mood; that would be fine, but just the fact that I know that they are using the webcam, they could be using some really confidential information.

M: Could you see yourself using AT after the study now?
P: In the current status, probably not. If there are some new features as this notification popup and the fact that you can easily get other windows in front of it, I would give it another try.

Additional Feedback / Questions
Nope.

