M: How long have you been part of the team, and how long do you know the team members?
P: I work for TONI since the first of April 2020, so almost three months from now on. But I got the opportunity to know all the team members well because we are a small start-up where everyone works with each other.

M: Please talk me through how you used AmbientTeams during the last week
P: To be honest, I did not use it too much because I only work two days per week. And for those two days I normally go to the office for one day, and there I normally have the chance to meet one or two team members in person. Therefore it is to say that I did not have a strong need during my home office day to communicate online. I just looked a few times into AmbientTeams, what I saw for example on Tuesday that everyone was talking about the Swiss game, which is no wonder, and sometimes I tried to click on some of the emotion buttons and all. But I could not see the status nicely for myself then, and so I was not 100% sure if my other team members saw my status.

M: Did you only click on the emoji?
P: Yes, only on the emoji where I had to share my mood.

P: Did your usage change over time?
M: My usage was similar all the time.

M: Did your general way of interacting with your team members change due to the usage of AT?
P: No, it did not change. But in my case you also have to consider is that I only worked two days, and what you also have to consider is that now I am 50% of the time in the office physically, so to make an estimation about myself: At my former employee, since corona there was quite more home office, so like 90% of the team was in the home office, and in that case I could need a tool like AT quite more, compared to the situation right now. Because there I worked with people together for months and we only interacted with Webex and we could not use the webcam due to company restrictions, and from there I found it quite difficult to interact with them. SOmething like AT could really help in that context where you work remotely for months and cannot see eachother.

M: What do you generally think about such a sharing approach?
P: I think it's a good idea, especially now if you work either hybrid or completely remote, I think then it is quite difficult to see the mood of your team colleagues, because now in most video conferences you make a happy face into the camera, so it is also difficult to see your mood how your mood really is right now. 

M: What would you say motivated you to share something?
P: What motivated me is that sometimes the program popped up, and this reminded me to share my mood. But I always said that at this time that I had a good mood, this time this was honest, but I am not sure whether I would also share it if one day I had a bad mood. I am not sure if I then would be that honest to share it then directly online. Maybe, in my opinion if I am stressed or angry one day my team members would see it in the office even if I did not say anything.

M: Do you think the others were honest?
P: Not 100% sure; maybe they also give a happy mood but were angry at home.

M: What would be possible reasons that you would lie when sharing a mood?
P: First reason is if I make, for example, an angry or sad mood, then everyone would text me, and I think I will maybe lose my focus because they would ask me why I was feeling in this way etc. And I think the second reason is that in the online world it is a lot easier to hide bad feelings, and you try to present yourself in the best way (social media reference).

M: Would you prefer if the others were honest?
P: It's a difficult question; sometimes when I used AT I think sometimes you don't care because you don't see them directly and you are more focused on your work tasks, and you have a more isolated view and don't have impressions of how the others are doing. So for example if I see that my colleague is stressed I can help him.

M: How did you previously share moods and states?
P: I am quite a conservative person in the online world and therefore, I really don't frequently share private information about myself. So, I never share my mood or things like that. If I had troubles or questions, I could always ask my colleague or supervisor but it always then is depending on my because I had to get proactive and ask the people.

M: Was there anything you learned from using AmbientTeams from your team members?
P: No, for that, my workdays were too few. All the information I got is that all our team members were happy when Switzerland won.

M: Did the awareness of your team members moods' and status effect you in any way?
P: I think in that study not. But if somebody would have set a angry or stressed mood I would have helped him/her, if my current knowledge allowed it.

M: Do you know if your sharing had an effect on your team members?
P: This I don't know but I am sure that everyone would have helped me if I had shared an angry or sad mood.

M: You were the target of two direct messages, did you not see them?
P: Not sure, maybe it did not show up.. But no, I did not see it. Or maybe it was on a non-work day.

M: Does AT have an impact on the frequency at which you communicated?
P: In my case not, but I think if you work in a totally remote team this would change.

M: With the information, you could gather from AT, it could potentially lower the barrier to communicate?
P: Yes, I think definitely it could lower the barrier, especially in totally remote teams. M: Why? Because you have a program where you can share your mood with one click, and at the moment you have for example MS Teams or zoom and there it is that you chat to your collegues if you are angry if for example the system does not work, and on AT you only have to make one click and everyone knows it. Or for example if the system is not working one day, you could already see that some colleagues gave an angry mood, and then there is also a group pressure to share an angry mood. 

M: Would you say that if everyone is happy, would it be harder to share an angry mood?
P: Yes, I think then it would be harder to share an angry mood. And if you are mad for private reasons, you maybe don't want to explain more.

M: Did you use this ambient windows?
P: No, I did not use it, I always click it away. But I think it is a bit of a personal behaviour because in the past I also had sometimes programs that stared automatically and then I always clicked them away and openend them again when I needed them. For example MS Teams also works in the background and I just open it when I need it. 

M: Did you open the team overview or ambient window?
P: I mostly clicked on the ambient window.

M: Does AT integrate well into your existing workflow?
P: I think it integrated well, but I think it would be good if AT could be integrated into Teams because if you have one tool then you would use it more often. So, having only one program would be important.

M: Compared to other tools, is there a difference in the content?
P: No, I think there is no difference. I also use MS Teams sometimes for virtual breaks or so, and I also use Teams for business reasons. And I think if AT would replace MS Teams I would also use it more for both reasons, but I could image that if AT was installed I would use the communication tools for often for, how you say, ehm informal discussions like virtual breaks and all. Because if you only have to click on the avatar of Zsuzi or Adelina to start a conversation.

M: Given that you are a conservative person, would you still share moods long-term?
P: The long term is a difficult question. I think if I work still hybrid, I don't do this sharing. But if work is totally remote, I could also need a tool like AT, because I also had to coordinate some taks from other working students in the former team. Sometimes I then got the feedback that they already finished with work or that that they have no more tasks left. With something like AT they could set like a bored state and I would have been able to give them a new task. If they did not write me I thought that they had enough work to do, which was wrong as I told you.

M: Would you say the last couple of days typical?
P: They were more stressed because I have more tasks to do.

M: Potential feature of AT: Automated approach
P: I think then it would be important that the one who is being detected by the camera does not know that to capture the real mood. But then it's also the question if that is something you would want because you would feel observed. But I could imagine that some people would like it, I think you can also see this a bit on Facebook or Instagram who is conservative. For some people, if you visit their social media you can see how their lives is, what their interest is, and how they think politically, and all this stuff even if you don't know these people. And some people like myself posted a picture like 2 years ago.

M: What if the mood has to be confirmed?
P: I think that is a better idea because then I would also know that this camera is only recorded within the computer, and then it is also important to me that I have the 100% assurance that no one else could see the camera recording.

M: Would you also share negative moods then?
P: I am not sure if I would share negative moods if the algorithm detects a negative mood because sometimes you have this barrier to share the mood, so you have to establish this culture in the team, that it becomes a normal thing that everyone shares their angry or sad mood. Then, the barrier also becomes lower to share an angry mood. So, the group dynamic, in general, is important.  

M: Use in the future?
P: I think the program is very good, and there are no improvements required. Maybe only for some function was not clear for me; I could not see the mood for myself or could not see the messages directly. But I think in the context right now, where I meet people regulary, I don't think I would need it. But if I would work in a big, multi-national company where I am forced to always work at home without the opportunity to go to the office, I think there it would be a great tool to get part of the social contacts.
