M: How long have you been part of the team, and how well do you know each other?
P: So part of the team, if we're talking about the whole company, I Uhm, was one first to join, so back in the summer of 2017. And since then, I am growing very fast. But if we're talking about the team which was using this application, then not that long because we formed this new team recently, if you ask me, because we also had some new employees starting with us very recently. So, in that case, maybe half a year. Two of them I know pretty well, one of these two even very well, we also have a very deep connection if you ask me, not only business side but also private. The two of them, which recently started, I do have a good connection to them, but it's more on the business side. I think during corona, you don't really have that breakroom time, so if you call somebody, it's mostly about business and not about private stuff. So, I think it's very difficult to get into a deeper connection with people you don't see that often.

M: Please talk a bit about how you used AT during the last week.
P: Yes, I tried to use it, and I am saying I tried to use it because I really had to force myself to use it. It wasn't really that I wanted to use it, but it was more like common let's try it and give the guys some content. And it really helped that it popped up every hour or something like that, so you knew that there is an application that wants to be used. And what I did is I just shared moods and from time to time, I also shared a, how do you say a post.

M: Do you remember any concrete examples on how you used it, for example, the day before yesterday?
P: Uhm, yes, for example, after Switzerland's game, I posted the heart eyes with "Hopp Schwiiz" because I think it was something that everyone was happy about, and it's a feeling that we shared together at this point. 

M: Would you say that your usage changed over time during the study?
P: I think I tried to use it from time to time to make sure that I don't ignore it totally.

M: Did your general way of interacting with your team members change because of AT? Why/Why not?
P: Ya, I don't think so... I just tried with one of the team members a call in AT, but the real purpose of that was if the camera is still on after the call. But we did not really have other interactions through AmbientTeams, to be honest.

M: Did you have some other interactions outside of AT that happened because of AT?
P: Yes, but it was all of that issue we had with the camera. Not really conversations about "are you using it?" or "Did you post something?".

M: What do you generally think about a mood and status sharing approach with your team? Do you see a need for it? IF so, why/why not?
P: I think if it were integrated into another application, for example, MS Teams, or something else companies are using, people would use it more, I think. I don't think people are ready to use another tool only to share their moods. For example myself I am using Teams, Skype and Whatsapp for business communication, and now if I have another tool to communicate it is not really necessary for me to have another communication tool. And the other thing is, sharing moods or sharing feelings within a business circle is not very wanted, I guess. It's not something people like to talk about when it comes to business, like how you're feeling or if you have a bad day or whatever. I mean of course it is very important that you talk about these kinds of things, but you don't want to share it with the whole team. Maybe you have one or two colleagues you are a bit closer to, and if you had a bad moment or a really bad day, you would just want to that person and share your feelings with them, instead of the whole team.

M: So to summarize, in general, talking about your moods is important, also in a business context, but maybe it should be more directed to specific people?
P: Yes, exactly. 

M: What would you say motivated you to share something?
P: Ehm, I am curious if other people are sharing or what they are sharing. Sometimes I tried to share something to push the others to do the same. And just this thing that I said before, if you have something that you are very happy about, you think that other people also share, then you are more motivated to share it as well. It's easier to share positive feelings within a working environment compared to negative feelings because nobody wants to talk about negative feelings.

M: It's actually my next question. So, would you also share negative feelings with your team?
P: Actually, I think I once shared a negative feeling. But only like the avatar, and I don't remember why. Maybe it was just the purpose of trying it out, or I was tired, but yeah, just more to try it. If we would use it in the whole team and it would not just be an experiment, I would not share those things, like when I am tired or angry.

M: Would you mind if the others share negative feelings?
P: I don't know if that would be annoying at one point. But I think that, for example, link the tracked moods to the tasks you were working on, then you could maybe find a correlation between work that you like to do and what kind of work you don't like to do. Also, you could maybe track how efficient they were at those tasks. From a management perspective, you could then assign tasks to people who are efficient at those tasks. Further, you could find may be "hidden" interests of your employees.

M: I think I will check whether there is some existing literature where they try to link moods and work items, both for maybe like self-reflection and managers.
P: Yes, exactly. So, for example, for an employee, it can also be very interesting to see which tasks made one very happy. So, for example, when you are in a startup, you also do lots of work also from other departments. I can speak basically about myself; I was in accounting, then in reporting, then also doing a lot of stuff in IT. If I had something that could then show me afterward that for example every time I do something for IT I am very happy, then I can maybe try to seek more tasks in IT and find my potential in IT and my life itself to make any further education for instance.

M: Did you notice that your and teammates' avatars were fading out with time and did this somehow influence you for sharing something?
P: Uhm, I would say yes, because it's like with everything; if you are in a circle and everyone sits down, at one point, you also sit down and don't really give an effort to keep standing. You mean, if I like realized that the guys are not really using it and thus I also did not really use it?

M: Yes, for example. I mean, it could go both directions. So, what you're saying is if others are not sharing, you also don't share?
P: Yeah, but still, it's always like a difference between this phase we were in last week and for the future. I mean, last week, as said before, I tried to share something from time to time to just be active. But, if we were not in a test phase, maybe I would not share that much if I saw that the others are also not really sharing anything.

M: How did you previously share moods and states with each other?
P: So, maybe during business conversations through MS Teams, you just say, "Uh, I really did not want to do that", or "This was very complicated", and so on. But also maybe I have to mention that 2 or 3 weeks ago we started with virtual break rooms on Friday afternoons to try to keep up with people from work, especially for new people, because we don't really get the chance to get to know each other in home office. This is also how we were able to share our experiences and feelings, well, not really feelings, with each other. 

M: Is this something everyone participates in?
P: Uhm, this is something I set up, and everyone is welcome to join, but it is by no means mandatory. So, I just open up the call, and everyone just joins and leaves whenever they want. And I think that we will keep doing that, especially for new people to get a chance to meet others. Because otherwise, they don't really talk to the people outside of their department and never get to know the other people. So for them, it is also very difficult to know what you are really doing and if they could potentially ask you if they have a problem with something and so on. And people are participating, so I think it's not that bad.

M: Was there anything you learned from using AT about your team members? Maybe something you did not know before?
P: Not really, to be honest. I just had to confirm that one team member is really just always very positive and too nice.

M: Did this positive mood influence you then?
P: Since it is nothing new, it is not really surprising, and you get used to it.

M: Do you know if your sharing had an impact on any other team members?
P: I don't think so.

M: Does or did AT have an impact on the frequency at which you communicated with your team?
P: Not really.

M: Is there anything else that you learned or changed from using AT that you did not cover yet?
P: No.

M: With the information that you gathered from using AT, do you think it could potentially lower the barrier to communication?
P: Let me think... I don't know, so you mean if I see people saying "I am bumped out", if I am going to communicate with that person?

M: Yes, for example.
P: It always depends on the person, to be honest. So if it's a team member I really like to talk to, then, of course, I would ask what's wrong or something. But for some, I just don't care.

M: Ambient window: Did you use this? If so, how did you like it and why?
P: It's a little bit too small, also to drag it's not very comfortable because you miss it quite fast. And I did not really use it, maybe only to open the overview.

M: Can you think of any scenarios or use cases where it could maybe be useful?
P: So, if you are really willing to share your moods all the time, it can be very helpful because it's right there, and you can change your mood very quickly and also share a status. But maybe it has to be a little bit more handy, and maybe also fading away if you are not using it, because sometimes it can also be a little bit disturbing when it's like in the middle of another window.

M: Did you use the team overview window?
P: More than the other one, yes. Also, sometimes for just checking who is online and who is grayed out.

M: Does AT integrate well into your existing workflows, or is this something that could be improved? I guess you mentioned it already with MS Teams.
P: I really think as a feature in MS Teams, it could be very useful. But as a tool outside, I don't think people or companies are willing to do that.

M: Would you say compared to traditional communication tools like MS Teams, there is a difference in the types of content and information you share with your team?
P: Yes, so I mean with MS Teams, you don't share any moods; you just say if you're available, and that's it. And with AT, you say if you are available, happy, focused, or happy to interact and so on. It's more about emotions, and MS Teams is more about availability. 

M: Have the last couple of workdays been typical?
P: It was awkwardly quiet, to be honest. I don't remember ever having this since I started.

M: Why is that?
P: I just have to wait until something has been developed until I can run my tests. And since I know that very stressful days are coming after that, I was not willing to disturb that quietness. But really, I don't remember having such quiet days... I was still always doing stuff but with less pressure.

M: We are thinking about adding the current mood from the webcam and showing it to your coworkers. What are your thoughts about such an automated approach?
P: No, I would not be willing to do that at all because I really don't like to be observed, and this would give me the feeling of being observed all the time. It would make me extremely nervous.

M: Would that change if you had to confirm what is being shared before it is actually being shared? Or is it more concerning to you that the camera is accessed all the time?
P: I think the latter. So, even though I could have a look at what would be shared, I would not feel comfortable sharing that with my colleagues. I know that if we would be in the same office, my colleages would see my moods anyways, but still, with the camera is very different to me and not something I would not feel comfortable about. 

M: Could you see yourself using AmbientTeams after the study? Why/Why not? What could be improved?
P: Uhm, as a separate tool, I would not use it. Integrated into another communication tool, I might use it, yes.

M: Do you have any other feedback or questions regarding the study?
P: I think I said everything. Maybe just if you like make some further developments and next to sharing the moods maybe also link it to tasks. For example, for MS Teams, you also have those task lists, and if you could combine those, it could be very helpful for the company and maybe yourself as an employee to discover your potential and interests.
