M: How long have you been part of the team, and how well do you know the other team members? 
P: I have been part of the team for three months part of the team, thus not knowing them too well.

M: Please talk a little bit about how you used AmbientTeams during the last couple of days. 
P: I used the tool by mainly using the mood sharing feature and status sharing. I also had a video call with one of my colleagues. I also really enjoyed reading what my team members were sharing or getting to know their moods.

M: Do you have any concrete examples on how you used AmbientTeams yesterday (or the day before)?
I shared two status messages with my team. One time I shared that I was sad for Mbappé because of the missed penalty of France in the soccer game against Switzerland. 

M: Did your usage change over time and if so, how?
P: At first, I tried some more of the communication functionality, but I basically mainly used the mood sharing features after that. Also, in the beginning I did not share so much because it was a new tool and it first had to kind of establish its place in my daily routine.

M: Did your general way of interacting with your team members change with the usage of AmbientTeams? If so, how and why?
P: Not with all of them, but in particular with one person, yes! We started to talk about non-work related topics more frequently.

M: What do you generally think about sharing moods/status messages inside your team? Do you see a need for it? If so, why?
P: I very much like the idea of sharing moods with the team. As we are becoming more aware on such a sensitive topic as mental health, this feature allows to discover more about your colleagues, and it sheds light to a part that we tend to keep only for ourselves. It can also be a very good feature if someone would need to ask for help in a more informal way.

M: What would you say motivated you to share something yourself?
P: Good question... I would say that the automatic popup definitely helped to remember to share something. I really liked this popup, and it honestly did not even bother me at all because it was so easy and quick to update my mood, and then the popup was gone again.

M: Did you notice that your and your teammates' avatars were fading out? Did this somehow influence you for sharing yourself?
P: Yes, I did notice the fading out. I don't think it influenced me or motivated me to share something myself when my avatar was fading out. However, I feel like whenever the avatars of my team members were fading out, this motivated me to share something.

M: What did you generally share with your team? And why? I saw that you mainly shared positive moods with your team, why is that?
P: I think it was because I was really just happy during the study, also partly because of visiting my family. However, I also don't see a problem if people generally share more positive moods than they actually are feeling. Sharing something "fake" positive could potentially make them feel better. 

M: Did you also share negative moods/states when you didn't feel so good? If so, when and why, or why not?
P: I don't think I would share regular negative moods when having a bad day, for instance, being this new to a company. If something really severe were to happen, however, let's say something personal or family related, I would share such moods to inform other people.

M: How did you previously share moods and states (e.g. with Slack, Teams, Zoom)? If they did share moods/states: Do you prefer AmbientTeams over your old way sharing moods/states? Why/Why not?
P: I did not really share my moods before via other communication channels. 

M: Was there anything you learned from AmbientTeams about your team members? Was this something you didn't know about them before using AmbientTeams?
P: Yes, actually about one particular person in the team. I did not know that this person was so funny before using AmbientTeams. The fact that I got to know one person a lot better during this one week and also having non-work related talks now already exceeds my expections for the study to be honest.

M: Did the awareness on your team members' moods and states affect you in any way?
P: Yes, definitely! If I saw some happy avatars of for example Tobi or Adelina, I would also smile a bit.

M: Is it important to you to know how other team members are feeling? Why?
P: Yes, it is important to me because if you think about how much time you spend with your co-workers, it is very important that you have good personal relationships with those people. Even when it's not clear how much longer you will be working together with those people.

M: Do you know if sharing your states/moods had an impact on your team members? Did it have an impact on yourself?
P: I don't know how my sharing impacted my colleagues, to be honest. But I think it impacted myself because you're always prompted to think about your own mood.

M: Did/does AmbientTeams have an impact on the frequency of communication and when you share information with your team?
P: I believe to think so, yes. I had more non-work related communication, however outside of AmbientTeams in our existing tool.

M: Was there anything else that you learned or changed from sharing and seeing moods/states with AmbientTeams?
P: I think it was very interesting to see moods and states of team members with whom I might not be currently working together too closely. 

M: With the information that you could gather from AmbientTeams, would you say it could potentially lower the barrier (Widerstand/Hemmschwelle) to communicate?  
P: Yes, I actually think this is one of the major benefits of the tool. 

M: Did you use the ambient window? If yes: How did you like it and why?
P: Actually, I think the ambient window is one of the best parts of the application, even though I have to admit that probably I have used the overview window more often. I liked that the ambient window feels very dynamic and refreshing compared to other tools.

M: Does AmbientTeams integrate well into your existing workflows, or could this be improved?
P: I think it fitted pretty nice into existing workflows. 

M: Compared to traditional communication tools (such as Slack, Teams, Zoom), is there a difference in the types of content and information that you share with your team using AmbientTeams? Why is that?
P: AmbientTeams provides a lighter set-up which I felt that made it more comfortable to share and discuss on a more personal level with other team members. At the same time the fact that even when you would write a message or share a status you would communicate it through your avatar rather then the typical layout of writing a text under your name made it much more interesting and interactive as an experience.

M: Would you consider the past couple of workdays to be typical? (was there something unplanned, extraordinary, etc.?)
P: The last week was not really a typical week since I was travelling and working from home the majority of the times (4/5 days).

M: We are thinking of adding a feature that will detect your current mood and fatigue from a webcam and automatically display it to your co-workers, similarly to what you now did manually. What are your thoughts on such an automated feature?
P: I think this a bit of a gray-scale approach because there could be several reasons why one would not want moods to be automatically shared.. However, potentially a solution would be to ask the user whether he would want to share a detected mood with his team.

M: Do you think it would be important to always confirm what is being shared within your closest team?
Already answered without asking above

M: How would the moods that are shared be different from the completely automated sharing approach?
I could imagine that not all negative moods would be shared, which I don't see a problem with to be honest.. I think it's fine if you "fake" your moods a bit to the positive.

M: Could you see yourself using AmbientTeams after the study? Why/Why not? What could be improved?
Yes, I could definitely see myself using it. I like the functionalities of the tool and how it makes the communication more dynamic. One thing that I can think could be improved is the video call functionality by increasing the size of the window where it is appearing and the option to show up the personal video camera as well.

M: Do you have any other feedback or questions regarding the study?
I think it would have been nice if the study was a bit longer.
